---
id: 2535
title: Uhura
date: 2013-04-02T22:36:54+00:00
author: bronto saurus
layout: post
guid: http://b.pwnz.org/?p=2535
permalink: /2013/04/uhura/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Uhura &#8211; Meaning of the name

syll. u-hu-ra, uh-ura The girl name Uhura is pronounced as UWHHUHRah †. The origin of Uhura is African-Swahili. The name Uhura means freedom. The name Uhera is a form of Uhura.

&#8220;Uhura&#8221; comes from the Swahili word UHURU meaning &#8220;freedom&#8221;. Uhura was pretty much the first ever black main character on American television who was not a maid or a domestic servant in 1966. TV network NBC refused to let Nichelle Nichols be a regular, claiming Deep South affiliates would be angered, so Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry hired her as a &#8220;day worker,&#8221; but still included her in almost every episode. She actually made more money than any of the other actors through this workaround, and it was kept secret from the other actors, but it was still a humiliating second-class status. The network people made life hard for Nichols, constantly trying to pare down her screen time, purposefully dropping racist comments in her presence and even withholding her fan mail from her.This deplorable state of affairs led Nichols to make the decision to quit after the 1st season, but then she happened to meet the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. who pleaded with her to stick with the show because as a Black woman she was portraying the first non-stereotypical role on television.